---
title: 1. Introduction to programming
description: 
date: 2024-01-29
draft: false
tags: 
aliases:
---
Introduction to computer programming: CPU help is processing the computer program.

## Programming Languages 
---
We need language to communicate with a computer too! A [[#Computer Program/Application|computer program]] is a set of instructions written in a programming language that tells a computer what tasks to perform. 
Programming language are set of rules that consist of instructions for computers. There are many programming languages like [[#C++]], [[C|C]], [[#Python|python]], JavaScript, Go, [[2. Behavioral Modeling|Verilog]] etc.
### Python 
---
Python is a high-level, general-purpose [[#Programming Languages|programming language]]. It emphasizes code readability using significant indentation.
### C++
---
C++ is a compiled, statically typed, general-purpose [[#Programming Languages|programming language]] supporting multiple paradigms. It has imperative, object-oriented and generic programming features.

### Source code
---
A computer program in its human-readable form is called **source code**.
Here's a simple C++ program displaying "Hello World": 
[[3. Getting started with C++#Deep dive into the Boilerplate code| Boiler plate]]

```cpp
#include<iostream>
using namespace std;

int main(){
	//your code goes here
	cout << "Hello World";
	return 0;
}
```

**Source code** needs another computer program to execute because computers can only execute their native machine instructions.
Therefore, Source code may be translated to machine instructions using the language's [[2. Environment Setup#^compiler| compiler]].

**Machine language** is a set of instructions executed directly by a computer's central processing unit (CPU). Each instruction performs a very specific task, such as a load, a jump, or an ALU operation on a unit of data in a CPU register or memory. Every program directly executed by a <u>CPU is made of a series of such instructions.</u>

**Program Execution**
When a program starts executing, then the **operating system** loads it into memory and starts a process. The CPU starts executing the instructions written in the program and any required data is also loaded into memory (RAM).



