---
title: 03. Getting started with C++
description: 
date: 2024-01-30
draft: false
tags: 
aliases:
---
# History
---
- C++ is a cross-platform language that can be used to create a **high-performance applications**.
- C++ was developed by [Bjarne Stroustrup](https://www.stroustrup.com/), in 1979 at bell Labs as an extension to the the [[C as a Low-Level Language]] .
- C++ gives programmers a high level of control over system resources and memory.
- The language was updated multiple times leading to various C++11, C++14, C++17, C++20, C++23.

## Applications
---
- [[1. Introduction to programming|C++]] can be found in code of **operating systems**
- **Graphical User Interfaces** and **embedded systems** 
- Many **gaming engines** are written in C++ 
- Web browsers like **Mozilla, Chrome** are written in C++ 
- Banking applications Libraries & Frameworks for Machine learning like tensor-flow by google.

## Deep dive into the Boilerplate code:
---
Boilerplate code:
```cpp
include<iostream>
using namespace std;

int main(){
	//your code goes here
	cout << "Hello World";
	return 0;
}
```

`#include` : Pre-processor Directive : Gives instruction to the compiler for the pre-processing of the code.

`iostream` : Header file : For adding additional functionality in your code using a pre-written code file.

`using namespace std` : C++ standard namespace like `cout`, `cin` etc.

`cout` : Cout object : We want to output something in the console or the terminal.

`int main()` : Functions : Entry point : program starts executing from the main & any logic that you will define will go in the main. Each function will return something.

`return 0` : defines successful execution of the main function.

> [!NOTE]
> Compilation happens for every line which is line 1 - 7.
> Execution happens for line 4 - 7.

# Input -Output
---
## Variables
---
To store data from user input we need to create buckets in the memory, the buckets are called [[#Variables|variables]]. Each variable is of a certain datatype.

```cpp
#include<iostream>
using namespace std;

int main(){
	//creating variables
	int a, b, c;

	//reading inputs
	cin >> a;
	cin >> b;
	cin >> c;

	## outputs
	cout << "A:" << a << "B:" << b << "C:" << c << endl;

	//sum
	int sum  = a + b + c;
	cout << sum << endl;
	// optional : cout << (a + b + c) << endl;
return 0;
}
```
> [!FAQ]
> C++ is a case sensitive language.

## Comments
---
Single line comment : 
```cpp
// this is a comment
```
Multi line comment : 
```cpp
/*
This is a multi line
commment in C++
*/
```
